Design process

To our project, the design of the graphical user interface is one of the most important things. Instead of focusing on hiding the difficulty of the problem by obscuring it with automization and huge calculations, we seek to present suggestions and options for solutions in such a manner that a human being can lay the final touch. It has become apparant through our tests and interviews that no solution granted by a computer alone will be sufficient - there will always be conflicts needing a (to a computer) not obvious resolution, and even in the simplest of cases were no conflicts occur, human polish and/or acceptance is key.

We've undergone many iterations of each and every screen in the system, both those implemented in the prototype and those only on mockup stage. What follows is a tour through the process of the design.



Trimming the fat
The design of page begins with deciding what function it should serve in our system, eg. a page to book a room for 2 hours. With that constantly in mind, we attempt to find all the possible things that particular function COULD include. Some of them are extremely basic and obvious, eg. it needs to display which room you are booking, others are more complicated, as for example the ability to check whether this room is available on a regular basis.

Through the process of 'overthinking' each page, we came up with smarter solutions to cover several different items on the could-list, or foudn out we needed a new page to handle all the "advanced" settings as an example. Once we had settled on the functionality of the page, we began piecing the puzzle together


Layout ---- SØREN LA ---- Kræver tusindevis af referencer
Being a website poses some extra considerations - namely those of browsing habits. Two examples we will refer to, and assume basic familiarity with, in this section are wikipedia.org and google.com

----små billeder af wikipedia og google med F-pattern eyetrack-----

Let us for a second imagine a search for 'random' was made on both those pages. According to research by Jakob Nielsen (---- indsæt ref), users tend to scan the page in a pattern slightly resembling a capital F, ignoring banners and everything that looks like 'off-site' content. As 